Using a spray cleaner at least once a week
can increase your chances of having
asthma-like symptoms.
Any aerosol-based product, like an oven cleaner,
increases the amount of chemicals in the air.
Putting your head in the oven
and over-spraying increase your exposure.
Breathing in the product can cause your
airways to become irritated and swollen,
and potentially to spasm, and narrow.
These changes can make it difficult to breathe.
To reduce the risk of breathing in fumes,
always wear a face mask when using this type of product.
Or switch to a liquid oven cleaner
that you apply with gloves and a rag,
which will not get into your lungs
the way an aerosol cleaner can.